DOC-3599: Make improvements to Mission Mars - write states (#344)
corda/corda-docs-portal: content/en/platform/corda/5.0-dev-preview-1/tutorials/building-cordapp/c5-basic-cordapp-contract.md

> title: Write contracts

Reviewer: Did you want to change this to make it similar to the titles for states?
```suggestion
title: Write a contract
```

Author: Yes, good catch!

---

> [Contracts](../../../../../../en/platform/corda/5.0-dev-preview-1/cordapps/key-concepts/key-concepts-contracts.md) define the rules of how states can evolve. A CorDapp can have more than one contract, and each contract defines rules for one or more states. The contract includes [transactions](../../../../../../en/platform/corda/5.0-dev-preview-1/cordapps/key-concepts/key-concepts-transactions.html) that update the ledger by marking zero or more existing ledger states as historic (the inputs), and producing zero or more new ledger states (the outputs). The contract(s) ensures that input and output states in transactions are valid and prevents invalid transactions from occurring. All parties that wish to transact in a network must run the same contract(s) for any transaction they’re a party to, verifying that the transaction is valid.

Reviewer 2: contacts con't contain transactions, contracts goven the execution of a transaction, determining if the proposed transaction is valid

> Contracts are classes that implement the Contract interface. They must override the `verify` method. The `verify` method takes transactions as input and evaluates them against rules defined as a `requireThat` element. Contract execution must be deterministic, and transaction acceptance is based on the transaction’s contents alone. Contract verification is the final step that governs the evolution of the ledger, thus it can only address on-ledger facts.

Reviewer 2: might want to give an example of things technically banned by the deterministic rule, the need being for verification to be as true at any point in the future as it is now

> Contracts are classes that implement the Contract interface. They must override the `verify` method. The `verify` method takes transactions as input and evaluates them against rules defined as a `requireThat` element. Contract execution must be deterministic, and transaction acceptance is based on the transaction’s contents alone. Contract verification is the final step that governs the evolution of the ledger, thus it can only address on-ledger facts.

Author: ```suggestion
Contracts are classes that implement the `Contract` interface. They must override the `verify` method. The `verify` method takes transactions as input and evaluates them against rules defined as a `requireThat` element. Contract execution must be deterministic, and transaction acceptance is based on the transaction’s contents alone. Contract verification is the final step that governs the evolution of the ledger, thus it can only address on-ledger facts.
```

> 

Reviewer: First sentence. Should Contract be capitalized? Is it meant to be in backticks?

> A transaction that is not contractually valid is not a valid proposal to update the ledger, and thus can never be committed to the ledger. In this way, contracts impose rules on the evolution of states over time that are independent of the willingness of the required signers to sign a given transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A transaction that is not contractually valid is not a valid proposal to update the ledger, therefore it can never be committed to the ledger. In this way, contracts impose rules on the evolution of states over time that are independent of the willingness of the required signers to sign a given transaction.
```

> Contract verification is not the only type of validation that you can apply in your CorDapp—you can use [workflows](../../../../../../en/platform/corda/5.0-dev-preview-1/cordapps/flows/overview.html) to perform validation as well.

Author: Ah this one Erin talked about in the workshop the other day. You're not supposed to use spaces with em dashes. I was never sure on this one.

This tutorial guides you through writing the two contracts you need in your CorDapp: `MarsVoucherContract` and `BoardingTicketContract`. You will link these contracts to the states that you created in the [states](../../../../../../en/platform/corda/5.0-dev-preview-1/tutorials/building-cordapp/c5-basic-cordapp-state.md) tutorials.

> You will create these contracts in the `contracts/src/main/<kotlin>/net/corda/missionMars/contracts/` directory in this tutorial. Refer to the `TemplateContract.kt` file in this directory to see a template contract.

Reviewer: Does 'in this tutorial' relate to a physical thing (like an SDK)? Maybe a link would be useful to show that.

Author: This is a good point. I've taken out that bit of the sentence as I think it was confusing.

> You will create these contracts in the `contracts/src/main/<kotlin>/net/corda/missionMars/contracts/` directory in this tutorial. Refer to the `TemplateContract.kt` file in this directory to see a template contract.

Author: ```suggestion
You will create these contracts in the `contracts/src/main/<kotlin>/net/corda/missionMars/contracts/` directory. Refer to the `TemplateContract.kt` file in this directory to see a template contract.
```

## Learning objectives

When you have completed this tutorial, you will know how to create and implement contracts in a Corda 5 Developer Preview CorDapp to restrict how your transaction flows are performed.

## Create the `MarsVoucherContract` contract

> First, create the `MarsVoucherContract`. This contract verifies actions performed on the `MarsVoucher` state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `MarsVoucherContract` contract verifies actions performed on the `MarsVoucher` state.
```

4. Open the file.

### Create the contract class

> A Corda state typically has a corresponding contract class to document the rules/policy of that state when used in a transaction. To declare the contract class:

Reviewer: Also line 55 needs to have a em-dash instead of a hyphen and there's a bit that's in italics randomly. Probably should be a link.

> A Corda state typically has a corresponding contract class to document the rules/policy of that state when used in a transaction. To declare the contract class:

Author: Ooh yes, I think this used to be a list. Good catch. Also added the em dash and fixed the random italics.

}
```

### Connect the `MarsVoucherContract` to the `MarsVoucher` state

After creating the contract class in a CorDapp, you must connect the contract to its correlating state. Add the `@BelongsToContract` annotation *in the state class* to establish the relationship between a state and a contract. Without this, your state does not hold a relationship to the contract that is used to verify it.

1. Open your `MarsVoucher` class.

> 2. Insert the `@BelongsToContract` annotation with the `MarsVoucherContract` just before the definition of the `MarsVoucher` data class.

Reviewer 2: it would be better to just say "annotate the class with thw blah annotation", we're asuming here people know Jaba abd what an annotation is

```kotlin
package net.corda.missionMars.states

import com.google.gson.Gson
import net.corda.v5.application.identity.AbstractParty
import net.corda.v5.application.identity.Party
import net.corda.v5.application.utilities.JsonRepresentable
import net.corda.v5.ledger.UniqueIdentifier
import net.corda.v5.ledger.contracts.LinearState

@BelongsToContract(MarsVoucherContract::class)
data class MarsVoucher (
        val voucherDesc : String,//For example: "One voucher can be exchanged for one ticket to Mars"
        val issuer: Party, //The party who issued the voucher
        val holder: Party, //The party who currently owns the voucher
        override val linearId: UniqueIdentifier,//LinearState required variable
) ...
```

### Define commands

[Commands](../../../../../../en/platform/corda/5.0-dev-preview-1/cordapps/key-concepts/key-concepts-transactions.html#commands) are built into a transaction to indicate its intent. They control the type of actions performed to the state that the contract can verify.

Each command is associated with a list of signers. The public keys listed in a contract's commands indicate the transaction's required signers.

> In the `MarsVoucherContract`, you need a command that issues the `MarsVoucher`.

Reviewer 2: It issues an instance of a MarsVoucher - creating a new state on the ledger... it doens't issue <i>the</i> MarsVoucher

}
```

> ## Create the BoardingTicketContract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create the `BoardingTicketContract`
```
We have code samples in other headers on the page...

Now that you’ve written your first contract, try writing the `BoardingTicketContract` using the following information.

The `BoardingTicketState` will be used on two occasions, which means that the `BoardingTicketContract` should have a `Commands` interface that carries two commands corresponding to the contract’s two intentions:

> * Mars Express creates the ticket to go to Mars. This intention is expressed by the CreateTicket command.
> * Peter redeems the BoardingTicket state. This intention is expressed by the RedeemTicket command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Mars Express creates the ticket to go to Mars. This intention is expressed by the `CreateTicket` command.
* Peter redeems the `BoardingTicket` state. This intention is expressed by the `RedeemTicket` command.
```

The rules inside the `requireThat` Corda DSL helper method are:

* For the `CreateTicket` command:

>     * The transaction should only output one BoardingTicket state.
>     * The output BoardingTicket state should have a clear description of the space trip.
>     * The output BoardingTicket state should have a launch date later than the creation time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The transaction should only output one `BoardingTicket` state.
    * The output `BoardingTicket` state should have a clear description of the space trip.
    * The output `BoardingTicket` state should have a launch date later than the creation time.
```
